README.md, before:

#lmdb-go [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bmatsuo/lmdb-go.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bmatsuo/lmdb-go)

Go bindings to the OpenLDAP Lightning Memory-Mapped Database (LMDB).

## Key Features

- Fast zero-copy reads for applications with high performance requirements.
  Zero-copy behavior is specified at the transaction level to reduce
  instrumentation overhead.

```
err := lmdb.View(func(txn *lmdb.Txn) error {
    txn.RawRead = true
    val, err := txn.Get(dbi, []byte("largevalue"), 0)
    // ...
})
```

- API inspired by [BoltDB](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt) with automatic
  commit/rollback of transactions.  The goal of lmdb-go is to provide
  idiomatic, safe database interactions without compromising the flexibility of
  the C API.

- Subtransactions are fully supported and safe to use with the same idiomatic
  API.

- Comprehensive documentation and code examples.

#Build

`go get github.com/bmatsuo/lmdb-go/lmdb`

There is no dependency on LMDB dynamic library.

On FreeBSD 10, you must explicitly set `CC` (otherwise it will fail with a
cryptic error), for example:

    CC=clang go test -v ./...

#Documentation

The best source of documentation is the official LMDB C API documentation
reachable through the LMDB [homepage](http://symas.com/mdb/).

Documentation specific to the Go bindings and how methods differ from their
underlying C counterparts can be found on
[godoc.org](http://godoc.org/github.com/bmatsuo/lmdb-go/lmdb).

Commit message:

move the command clones out of exp/
The commands are meant to mirror their C counter-parts.  So their
purpose is clear and any modifications are fixes.

README.md, after:

#lmdb-go [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bmatsuo/lmdb-go.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bmatsuo/lmdb-go)

Go bindings to the OpenLDAP Lightning Memory-Mapped Database (LMDB).

## Key Features

###Zero-copy reads

Applications with high performance requirements can opt-in to fast, zero-copy
reads at the cost of runtime safety.  Zero-copy behavior is specified at the
transaction level to reduce instrumentation overhead.

```
err := lmdb.View(func(txn *lmdb.Txn) error {
    // RawRead enables zero-copy behavior with some serious caveats.
    // Read the documentation carefully before using.
    txn.RawRead = true

    val, err := txn.Get(dbi, []byte("largevalue"), 0)
    // ...
})
```

###Idiomatic API

API inspired by [BoltDB](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt) with automatic
commit/rollback of transactions.  The goal of lmdb-go is to provide idiomatic,
safe database interactions without compromising the flexibility of the C API.

###API coverage

The lmdb-go project aims for *complete* feature coverage for LMDB.
Subtransactions are fully supported.  Databases utilizing the `MDB_DUPSORT` and
`MDB_DUPFIXED` flags are supported.

###Documentation

Comprehensive documentation and examples are provided to demonstrate safe usage
of lmdb.  In addition to godoc documentation, implementations of the standand
LMDB commands (`mdb_stat`, etc) can be found in the [examples/] directory and
some simple experimental commands can be found in the [exp/cmd/] directory.
Aside from providing minor utility these programs are provided as examples of
lmdb in practice.

#Build

There is no dependency on shared libraries.  So most users can simply install
using `go get`.

`go get github.com/bmatsuo/lmdb-go/lmdb`

On FreeBSD 10, you must explicitly set `CC` (otherwise it will fail with a
cryptic error), for example:

    CC=clang go test -v ./...

#Documentation

The best source of documentation is the official LMDB C API documentation
reachable through the LMDB [homepage](http://symas.com/mdb/).

Documentation specific to the Go bindings and how methods differ from their
underlying C counterparts can be found on
[godoc.org](http://godoc.org/github.com/bmatsuo/lmdb-go/lmdb).
